What is a Data Converter? (#667)
temporalio/documentation: docs/content/what-is-a-data-converter.md

---
id: what-is-a-data-converter
title: What is a Data Converter
description: A Data Converter is a Temporal SDK component that encodes and decodes data entering and exiting a Temporal Cluster.
tags:
  - explanation
---

import CenteredImage from "../components/CenteredImage.js"

A Data Converter is a Temporal SDK component that encodes and decodes data entering and exiting a Temporal Cluster.

<CenteredImage
imagePath="/diagrams/default-data-converter.svg"
imageSize="100"
title="Data Converter encodes and decodes data"
/>

> Data is encoded before it is sent to a Temporal Cluster, and it is decoded when it is to be used in Workflow Executions, Activity Executions, or returned to a process using an SDK Client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data is encoded before it is sent to a Temporal Cluster, and it is decoded when it is to be used in Workflow Executions or Activity Executions or returned to a process by using an SDK Client.
```

### Default Data Converter

> There is a default Data Converter in each Temporal SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Temporal SDK includes a default Data Converter.
```

> The default Data Converter ensures data is encoded into a format that is supported by gRPC, a [Payload](https://github.com/temporalio/api/blob/2f980f7ce4349e808b16ec0f21e0fe675f79330f/temporal/api/common/v1/message.proto#L49) protobuf which consists of binary data plus key-value metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default Data Converter ensures that data is encoded into a format that is supported by gRPC—specifically, a [Payload](https://github.com/temporalio/api/blob/2f980f7ce4349e808b16ec0f21e0fe675f79330f/temporal/api/common/v1/message.proto#L49) protobuf, which consists of binary data plus key-value metadata.
```

### Custom Data Converter

> Applications may supply their own custom Data Converter to add extra layers of encoding such as encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applications can supply their own custom Data Converters to add layers of encoding, such as encryption.
```
Can also go singular: "An application can supply its own custom Data Converter..."

> This gives application developers the ability to ensure that all data provided to their application is encrypted while moving about the Temporal System and is only transformed back to its original form within a Worker Process that is executing Workflows and Activities on hosts that the application developers control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This gives application developers the ability to ensure that all data provided to their application is encrypted while moving in the Temporal System and is transformed back to its original form only within a Worker Process that is executing Workflows and Activities on hosts that the application developers control.
```

---
id: what-is-a-data-converter
title: What is a Data Converter
description: A Data Converter is a Temporal SDK component that encodes and decodes data entering and exiting a Temporal Cluster.
tags:
  - explanation
---

import CenteredImage from "../components/CenteredImage.js"

A Data Converter is a Temporal SDK component that encodes and decodes data entering and exiting a Temporal Cluster.

<CenteredImage
imagePath="/diagrams/default-data-converter.svg"
imageSize="100"
title="Data Converter encodes and decodes data"
/>

Data is encoded before it is sent to a Temporal Cluster, and it is decoded when it is to be used in Workflow Executions, Activity Executions, or returned to a process using an SDK Client.

### Default Data Converter

There is a default Data Converter in each Temporal SDK.

> The default Data Converter ensures data is encoded into a format that is supported by gRPC.

Author: ```suggestion
The default Data Converter ensures data is encoded into a format that is supported by gRPC, a [Payload](https://github.com/temporalio/api/blob/2f980f7ce4349e808b16ec0f21e0fe675f79330f/temporal/api/common/v1/message.proto#L49) protobuf which consists of binary data plus key-value metadata.
```

> At minimum this means that data is encoded into a byte array.

Author: ```suggestion
```
